docs: entities intro (#3206)
apollographql/federation: docs/source/schema-design/federated-schemas/entities/intro.mdx

---
title: Introduction to Entities

> subtitle: Fundamental keyed object type of Apollo Federation

Reviewer: Not sure why, but I'm not seeing the new subtitle in the preview: https://www.apollographql.com/docs/deploy-preview/2601ef076b8655656511bee3/graphos/schema-design/federated-schemas/entities/intro#defining-an-entity

Author: weird, same for me, and the subtitle was updated in the first commit of this branch, so wouldn't think it's a preview redeployment issue, gonna check local deploy ...

Reviewer: Hopefully this redeploy does the trick.

description: Learn to define, contribute to, and reference entities, the fundamental object types of Apollo Federation that resolve their fields across one or more subgraphs.
redirectFrom:
    - /federation/entities
---

<Note>

> Before you get started, you may want to check out the [Introduction to Apollo Federation](/graphos/schema-design/federated-schemas/federation) for a conceptual overview.

Reviewer: W/o an introductory sentence before the <Note>, I think this sentence would benefit w/ a little nod to what this page will cover.

```suggestion
Before getting started with entities, you may want to check out the [Introduction to Apollo Federation](/graphos/schema-design/federated-schemas/federation) for a conceptual overview.
```

Author: another future todo: add and use a Prerequisites callout

</Note>

## Entity overview

> In Apollo Federation, federated data objects are represented as _entities_. Entities are objects that can be fetched with primary keys. Like a row in a database table, an entity contains fields of various types, and it can be uniquely identified by a key field or set of fields.

Reviewer: I'm torn about using "unique identifier" vs. "primary key" here. The former is more technically accurate while the latter helps set up the next sentences. I think my preference is for the former--wdyt?

```suggestion
In Apollo Federation, federated data objects are represented as _entities_. Entities are objects that can be fetched with unique identifiers. Like a row in a database table, an entity contains fields of various types, and it can be uniquely identified by a key field or set of fields.
```

Author: Is it because entity keys are mostly but not completely same as a databse primary keys?

I think introducing "key" in the first definition is (ahem) key 😁 for entities.

how about: 

   ```suggestion
In Apollo Federation, federated data objects are represented as _entities_. Entities are objects that can be fetched with one or more unique key fields. Like a row in a database table, an entity contains fields of various types, and it can be uniquely identified by a key field or set of fields.
```

Reviewer: WFM!

1. Apply the [`@key` directive](#1-define-a-key) to an object type.
2. Define the object type's [reference resolver](#2-define-a-reference-resolver).

<Tip>

> With Apollo Connectors, you add [connector directives](/graphos/schema-design/connectors/directives) instead of writing reference resolver code. 

Reviewer: Should we also mention the necessity to mark entities as `entity:true` in a connectors schema?

Author: yes we can that add that as a detail:

```suggestion
With Apollo Connectors, you add [connector directives](/graphos/schema-design/connectors/directives) instead of writing reference resolver code. 

You can [set `entity: true`](/graphos/schema-design/connectors/directives#rules-for-entity-true) for the `@connect` directive to provide an entity resolver for its fields.
```
